SGML spell-checking package
---------------------------
(formerly known as DocBook spell-checking package)

This package includes a couple of tools that you can use to
automatically spell-check your SGML documents.  One of the advantages
of this tool over some other SGML-aware spell checkers is that it
scans your documents in the form in which the SGML parser actually
sees it, which means it is not line-based, system entities are
resolved, marked sections are treated appropriately, etc.

Also, this tool can be made aware of particular DTDs, in the sense
that it knows not to spell-check the content of elements that do not
represent human-language text, such as <programlisting> in DocBook.
An exclusion list for the DocBook DTD is included, others can be added
trivially.

To run the show, execute

$ nsgmls -l yourdoc.sgml | sgml-spell-checker --dtd=docbook

Provide to nsgmls the options you need, such as -c to search more
catalogs, -i to include a marked section, or more source files.  Do
not forget the -l option, or you won't get any file or line references
for the misspellings.

The second part of the pipe takes a couple of options.  Use --help to
see a complete list.  Note that if the language of the document does
not match your system's locale settings, you need to use the
--language option.

Read the aspell documentation about how to set up the appropriate
dictionaries.  To use one or more personal dictionaries in this
particular run only, pass the names of the dictionary files on the
command line, such as:

... | sgml-spell-checker --dictionary=mydict1.aspell --dictionary=mydict2.aspell

In case you're having trouble interpreting the aspell documentation,
here's how to make an aspell dictionary file from a flat word list:

rm -f mydict1.aspell    # aspell won't overwrite existing files
aspell --language-tag=xx create personal ./mydict1.aspell < mywordlist.txt

Watch the slashes.  Aspell likes to see a slash in the name or it will
search some default location.

The output of the command pipe above is a list of the words that are
misspelled (in the opinion of aspell), together with file name and
line number.  Note that the line number designates where the element
that contains the word started, not where the word actually is.  So
most likely you will have to search a few lines below the indicated
location.

If you like this or have comments, feel to write.

-- 
Peter Eisentraut
peter_e@gmx.net
2002-09-20
